# Double-NAT-Issue
I will discuss how I discovered how double NAT was present on my network, and what I did to resolve it.

### 1. Investigating the Issue
I had just begun studying for the NET+ and wanted to try optimizing my network with what I had learned so far. The first issue that stood out to me was the speed of my computer. My computer is connected via MoCA, with the other end of it being connected to an Xfinity XB8 modem -specifically on the 1 gbps port. The MoCA guarantees speeds up to 2.5 gbps, and coupled with the 1 gbps port and my plan guarantees up to 1.2 gbps, I was expecting at least 800 mbps. When I ran the speed test, the results came back as 300 mbps down, 20 mbps up. This surprised me, given the hardware it was attached to, which prompted me to investigate further.

### 2. Troubleshooting the Issue
This was my first time troubleshooting a network so going into this process I wasn't familiar with many concepts, such as speed-capped ports; Which is why, in hindsight, some of these steps may seem unconventional. I started the investigation with what I thought was the most rational option, logging into the modem where I thought I would find a way to adjust the network speed. When I did login, I only found security options, and a list of connected devices; however I did make sure to take a mental note that the modem did have routing enabled. I then pivoted over the the router, where I adjusted some wireless and security settings, before discovering that routing was also enabled on the router. This meant that both devices were routing, and I discovered my network had double NAT. I decided to research the issue more and learned that this wouldn't impact performance significantly, but it was a challenge I wanted to take on.

### 3. Fixing the Problem
The first step that I took in fixing this newly discovered double NAT issue was to first, decide which device would remain a router, and which would be switched to bridge mode. I compared the speeds of the devices and found that the Xfinity XB8 has speeds up to 2.5 GBPS. Whereas the Netgear RAX70 has speeds up to 6.6 GBPS which made it the clear winner. The next step that I took was logging into the router to switch it over to bridge mode. I did this by directly connecting my computer to the ethernet port on the modem and going to the ip gateway address (10.0.0.1). By connecting directly to the modem via ethernet it would ensure that I maintained a connection to the modem even after bridge was enabled; this allowed me to validate that the changes I implemented were actually applied. I then connected my computer to the Netgear router and double checked that router mode was on. After that, I power cycled both the router and modem to implement the changes, then ensured that the internet was working.

### 4. Takeaways
One important thing that I learned from this is to understand the devices that are on my network. I wasn't aware that the XB8 functioned as both a modem/router combo, so I wasn't aware that a double NAT issue would even be possible. By understanding what is being installed on the network I can prevent issues from occuring. Another important takeaway that I had from this was understanding the difference between a router and modem, and how they interact with each other. Before taking this project on I had a very surface level understanding of these devices but afterward, I learned that a router is responsible for NAT, DHCP and ARP, whereas the modem is meant to provide access to the ISP for internet connectivity.
